[Music]
the 10 biggest seed dinosaurs that ever
existed on earth
the ocean is a pretty terrifying place
filled with sharks venomous fish and
giant squids to name a few but whatever
lives in the sea nowadays can't be
compared with the huge monsters that
dominated the depths millions of years
ago and by monsters I mean long extinct
marine reptiles and dinosaurs since many
people are better acquainted with the
land roaming Giants of the past this
video will open your eyes to those that
ruled the waters before we dive into the
prehistoric oceans don't forget to click
that subscribe button and ring that
notification bell as an official bright
cider you'll always be in the know when
we post something new for you which is
on the daily 10 pliosaurus now at first
glance at this animal your first thought
is probably whoa a prehistoric crocodile
but looks can be deceiving because the
two aren't really related pliosaurus was
a genus of eight species belonging to
the larger family of pliosaurus these
prehistoric reptiles were characterized
by short necks massive heads and broad
flippers pliosaurus lived during the
Late Jurassic period around 150 to 145
million years ago their remains were
first discovered in Norway in the middle
of the nineteenth century they certainly
were real Giants with the largest
species weighing more than 30 tons and
growing up to 40 feet long also this
animal had an incredibly strong bite in
fact it was four times more powerful
than that of the mighty t-rex
[Music]
ix kronosaurus speaking of the playas or
family there's also the kronosaurus it
had all the typical features of a playas
or a large head with massive jaws a
short neck and a thick squarish trunk
they probably lived all over the world
given that their fossils have been
discovered in both Australia and
Colombia the largest kronosaurus ever
found was 34 feet long from snout to
tail and likely weighed about 12 tons
this marine reptiles teeth weren't
really deadly
they were only a few inches long and not
all that sharp despite this fact
kronosaurus was a savage and successful
predator when pursuing its prey it could
reach super high speeds and its bite was
extremely powerful ate no thesaurus
according to fossil evidence these
creatures were relatives of the playa
source and lived about 230 million years
ago at about 15 feet long the no
thesaurus wasn't among the largest
prehistoric sea creatures but it was one
of the most vicious these reptiles had
long needle sharp teeth that it used to
catch squid and fish some experts state
that no thesauruses could snap their
long heads sideways to catch a passing
fish kind of like how a crocodile does
surprisingly researchers say that these
reptiles shared a lot of similar
features with the modern sea lion no
thesauruses had four legs that they
could use to walk just like sea lions do
also they lived and hunted in the ocean
but could come out on the shore to rest
finally experts still can't determine if
they laid eggs or actually gave birth to
their young hence the name false lizard
[Music]
seven sticks asaurus the sticks asaurus
belonged to the plesiosaur family and
lived during the late cretaceous period
around 85 to 70 million years ago upon
first glance at this dinosaur you might
mistake it for a sea snake and it'd be
an honest mistake sticks the sources
were about 35 feet in length but over 16
feet of that consisted just of their
long snake-like neck they had a
comparatively small body and weighed
approximately four tons their mouths
were full of razor-sharp cone-shaped
teeth that they used to catch fish they
didn't need to chew their prey thanks to
the 200 small stones called gastroliths
in their bellies that probably aided in
digestion at the same time some
scientists believe that the sticks
asaurus used these stones to sink to the
ocean bottom in search of particular
types of fish hmm looks kinda like
Nessie to me 6 alberto necked as' the
alberto necklace was another
representative of the Plesiosaurus
meaning that this marine reptile had a
small head on an incredibly long neck
and large flipper like limbs that helped
it move through the water
these creatures occupied the sea around
North America 76 to 70 million years ago
the length of this sea monster could
reach 38 feet with its neck taking up 23
feet of that length its neck was a true
record breaker it had a whopping 76
bones in it no other animal known to
humankind has had so many vertebrae in
its neck scientists aren't sure why they
needed such a lengthy neck Alberto
necklaces might have used it to collect
shellfish off the seabed or perhaps it
helped them capture their main prey fish
and squid this aquatic reptile also had
gastroliths in his stomachs some of them
were as big as five and a half inches in
diameter
five fellas Omid I the Lazo Mita means
Sea Lord in ancient Greek and there's a
pretty good reason behind this name
these representatives of the pleaseö
soar family were huge predators that
could reach 40 feet in length that's
about as big as a four-story building
their long flipper like limbs could grow
up to 7 feet in length allowing them to
move through the water with shocking
efficiency the Thalasso madhan's amazing
neck had 62 vertebrae and could be up to
20 feet in length
that's half its body size like most
pleaseö soars these creatures had
comparatively small heads measuring just
19 inches but that tiny head was full of
long sharp teeth that reached almost 2
inches in length however these reptiles
were unlikely to use their teeth for
purposes other than catching prey just
like other Plesiosaurus
their stomachs were full of stones that
probably helped with digestion by
rubbing up against each other when the
gastric walls moved crushing and
grinding up the fish inside for
tylosaurus the tylosaurus belonged to
the mosasaur family it dominated the
shallow seas of North America about 85
to 80 million years ago this was an
enormous predator with the biggest
representatives reaching 45 feet in
length it had a narrow hydrodynamic body
with a blunt powerful head that the
animal used to Ram and stun its prey its
body was equipped with agile flippers
and a long tail decorated with a
maneuverable fin the tylosaurus was a
carnivore and it's a diet included not
only fish turtles and small sharks but
also other mosasaurs Plesiosaurus
and flightless birds
three the shonisaurus the shonisaurus
lived on our planet during the late
triassic period approximately 215
million years ago the remains of this
creature were first discovered in Nevada
in 1920 not far from the Shoshone
mountains this prehistoric reptile
resembled a huge chubby dolphin it was
about fifty feet long and weighed
approximately 30 tons which is more than
the combined weight of two sperm whales
there's an even more fascinating fact
about the show neosaurus other than its
incredible size this creature didn't
have any teeth researchers figured out
that its babies had teeth when they were
born but they fell out as they mature
one theory suggests that Shoni sources
probably didn't eat teeth due to their
sheer size to Mosasaurus the Mosasaurus
is a truly gigantic predator that
dominated the seas all over the world
about 66 million years ago according to
fossil evidence some specimens could be
more than 50 feet in length this fact
makes the Mosasaurus the biggest marine
carnivore of its time one of the most
terrifying things about this creature
was its crocodile-like head decorated
with literally hundreds of razor-sharp
teeth neatly organized into rows on both
jaws the thing is that it was pretty
challenging for the Mosasaurus to grab
its prey in the water that's why it had
all these teeth plus something special
pterygoid teeth anchored to the bones on
the roof of its mouth
this made hunting and holding onto its
prey much easier
[Music]
one shasta soros the Shasta source is
the biggest marine reptile that has ever
existed
these predators have lived during the
Late Triassic period about 210 million
years ago these amazing Giants could
reach lengths of up to 69 feet and
weighed more than 75 tons
this made the Shasta source as heavy as
a blue whale and if you could stand this
creature up vertically it'd be as tall
as a seven story building
despite appearances the Shasta source
was actually pretty slim for its size
its ribcage was only six feet across
yeah
only you'd think that this big guy was
chowing down another dinosaurs but
that's not the case at all this reptile
survived on a diet that consisted of
small fish and cephalopods like
octopuses and squid what giant sea
creature impressed you most of all do
you know of any other aquatic dinosaurs
that we forgot to mention sound off in
the comments below if you learned
something new from today's video give it
a like and send it to your friends
knowledge is something that should
always be shared don't forget to
subscribe to our Channel because life is
more exciting on the bright side
[Music]